LocJam-2014-Okapi-Filter
========================

Do you want to participate in LocJam2014, but using your favorite CAT tool? Now you can! Using Okapi Rainbow and this filter, you can generate an XLIFF, PO, or a few other formats that CAT tools can handle.


# What it does

Besides allowing you to use all the functionality of a CAT tool of your choice, this filter also transforms things that shouldn't be translated (newlines, [GOV], [G] and |) into inline tags.


# How to use it

First, you need to download [Okapi Rainbow](http://www.opentag.com/okapi/wiki/index.php?title=Rainbow). You need to have Java 1.7 or greater for it to work. Also download the Republia Times filter, by clicking on *Download ZIP*, on the right panel, and unzip it somewhere. You also need the Republia Times translation pack, of course!

Start Okapi Rainbow and click the *Add Documents* button (the green one with the plus sign) and choose *translateme.csv*, from the Republia Times translation pack. That file will show up on the *Input List*. Right click it and choose *Edit Document Properties*, showing a new screen. Under *Filter Configurations*, click the *More* button, which will open yet another screen. Edit *Folder* under *Custom Configurations*, and choose the folder where you unzipped the Republia filter (the .fprm file). The filter will show up in the end of the filters list. Select it and click *Select*. Back to the previous screen, under *Encodings*, you should type *Unicode* in both *Target* and *Source* fields. Click *Ok*.

Now click *Utilities* > *Translation Kit Creation*. Choose your preferred package type under *Package Format*. If unsure, choose *Generic XLIFF* or *PO Package* (you might as well try using [Omegat](http://omegat.org/) =) ). You should also fill out the *Output Location*, and then click *Execute*. It's normally good to wait until Okapi has finished processing the documents, but it should be rather fast in this case. Anyway, wait a few seconds before closing Okapi and opening the generated package with your CAT tool.

Translate the package as you normally would, then generate the translated file. That's not the .csv file we want yet, we have to merge the translated parts with the original. Start Okapi Rainbow again. Click the *Add Document* button again, but this time, go to the package generated by Okapi and locate a file named *manifest.rkm*. With that file in the *Input List*, click *Utilities* > *Translation Kit Post-Processing* > *Execute* > *Continue*. That'll generate a folder inside the package called *done*, containing the final translated file, called *translateme.out.csv*. Rename it to *translateme.csv* and put into the *downloadme* folder, overwriting the original *translateme.csv*. And That's it!


# Limitations

In the original .csv file, column A can provide useful tips about the functionality of the text in columns B and C. I tried to make it show in OmegaT (my CAT tool of choice) as a segment ID or comment/note, but it didn't work. You can always check the original file, but it would be nice to have it show in the CAT tool. I'm still trying to make it work, though.
